I just saw the news today that a
politically significant YouTube channel
was deleted for politically significant
reasons this channel was called monkey
Jones and you can probably guess already
from the name of the channel it was
satirical it was comedic but let me tell
you something in politics a joke is not
just a joke
he actually did some really significant
original research on the life of Elliot
Rodger Elliot Rodger was an attempted
mass murderer he did murder a few people
I think he actually really shared with
the public a lot of facts about that
case that you would not find in
mainstream press coverage and yeah he
also did make comedic videos comedic
videos about Elliot Rodger about those
mass murders and on other topics so he
engaged in satire and humor but it was
not just joking for the sake of getting
a laugh and I can genuinely say that I
did learn things I learned things that
were useful and meaningful to me and I
think I quoted his channel in at least
one or two videos here in the past he
had a positive impact on my life might
be surprising to some of you seeing this
video but that's the truth now both of
his channels have been deleted by
YouTube through the usual YouTube strike
process they use the term strike because
of the concept of
three-strikes-you're-out
right now someone is trying to get my
channel deleted by sending in complaints
that would under normal circumstances
give me strikes and that result in
specific videos being deleted and this
is not the first time I've been through
this because I've been through this
repeatedly of people perniciously trying
to have my channel deleted through
complaints that YouTube may regard as
ostensibly legitimate or they may not
I'm kind of open door there because I
have that back from that experience I
wasn't surprised at all to hear that
monkey Jones's channel was deleted on
the contrary when I discovered his
channel just a couple of months ago I
thought oh wow it's
a matter of time before these videos get
deleted not as sorry the whole channel
many people don't understand what's
happening in terms of the uncontrolled
sequence of caused an event that's
transforming the content on YouTube
inside and out step one was just the D
monetization of overtly violent videos
if you go back five years people used to
actually make money and get famous
but uploading videos of people having
fistfights and YouTube was I think
ambivalent about making money themselves
or their contributors making money out
of this kind of overtly negative amateur
filmmaking
I mean there really were videotapes of
like a bunch of kids in the neighborhood
punching each other in the face that
would get uploaded here notoriously to
other websites like WorldStarHipHop and
YouTube obviously it was in a position
where they were trying to come up with
some kind of policy statement that would
draw a line about what type of content
they do and don't want to be making
money out of there were some enormous ly
successful channels that spread a
neo-nazi message so I've mentioned one
here repeatedly she was a really skinny
Canadian girl who was putting up videos
of herself celebrating the birthday of
Adolf Hitler
she had a videotape of her literally
blowing out the birthday candles on a
cake she baked for Adolf Hitler and
having the photograph Adolf Hitler on
the wall this kind of thing um at that
time that so many years ago has more
like four years ago
it really wasn't clear what policy
statement YouTube was enforcing here
there was an ad-hoc sense that every so
often something crosses the line and
nobody's ever really drawn the line but
when something crosses the line on an
ad-hoc basis some executive at YouTube
makes the decision to to take it down so
in as much as the ad hoc period seem to
only punish
people who were rich and famous the
majority of us didn't complain because
of course there were dozens or hundreds
of small channels doing the same things
and not making money or not getting
famous
they were just committing the same
transgressions on a smaller scale so I
think a lot of people ignored what the
creeping effect of this would be now I
didn't ignore it and it's no great I'm
boast on my part I didn't ignore it
because I couldn't ignore it I got a
strike
so video removed and a strike against my
channel because of my criticism of the
diet and exercise routine of Ted car
now you've full disclosure I was also
really criticizing what he said about
education and career plans because he
was encouraging his video server D he
was encouraging his audience to just
kind of drop out of school and not worry
about having a career and not think long
term and I saw a lot wrong with that
advice so from my perspective that was
my main focus in criticizing Ted Caron
his channel but that's not why the video
was deleted had a strike I dared to say
that he looked about 10 years older than
he looks I dared to say that his his
he's presenting himself he's the guy
who's has his shirt off and his
presenting himself as a kind of beauty
beauty icon for men as being an athlete
and someone you should aspire to look
like and I said that he is not terribly
good-looking that he does not look
terribly youthful or vital or
what-have-you
I did make some comments in passing
about his appearance bullying and or
hate speech not just demonetized video
deleted strike against your channel and
if you get three strikes you're out your
channels gone forever now you can see
exactly what I said about Ted car on
this channel still because I edited it
into shorter segments and re-uploaded
the video which is a risk because then
if it's there in three pieces and you
get three strikes your whole channel is
deleted but I did that and honestly I
did it because I really believed in what
I said in that video and I really
thought it was important to take the
chance and have that on the record and
for me also it means I can now say that
this audience hey if you want to know
just how easy it just how
strict the censorship is on YouTube
that's mostly invisible to you I guess
I'll give a link below this video none
of you guys gonna say you're gonna click
on this code what how could this
possibly be blocked this way well I have
a worse example for you and this relates
very directly to what monkey Jones just
went through some monkey Jones is
complaining that he had videos deleted
for hate speech I think it's
specifically hate speech not threats of
violence where he's quoting elliot
rodger so he's quoting elliot rodger in
the process of criticizing him or of
ridiculing him even and he is being
punished as if he's stating these
political views on his own behalf in the
same way I made a video harshly
criticizing a vegan diet guru another
guy who likes to have a shirt off on
camera by the way guy named John Rose
and it was completely clear that I was
harshly condemning him for being a
neo-nazi by the way I'm of Jewish
ancestry myself my political leaning as
you can see on this channel but I have
no sympathy whatsoever with this guy's
political position but if it wasn't
completely obvious to you if watching
the video that I was harshly condemning
him for his views it actually had a
warning at the bottom of the video
throughout whenever I was quoting the
person I was criticizing it said in text
on screen this is being quoted only - in
order to criticize and excoriate it you
know the this is not the view of the
person making this video and the irony
is that wasn't just deleted on my
channel and I got it was deleted as hate
speech on this channel but the scene
videos I was quoting are still on John
Rose's channel not censored no-strike
etc so the same statements about Adolf
Hitler he does he's not that subtle
about he directly is talking about his
views on Adolf Hitler on his channel
where their stated positively where he's
approving they'd all that Hitler that's
not hate speech according to YouTube
that's not censored my quoting his
zone Adolf Hitler in order to condemn
and excoriate him that is okay so this
is the reality even if these are the
only examples I had to work with this is
my only experience it's not if you know
watch my channel other people have tried
to destroy my channel okay um this shows
you very clearly what is possible and
what's not on YouTube and I feel bad for
machi Jones I believe he was making
enough money from YouTube that it was
his full-time job or at least it was a
part-time job that had really changed
his life so I think his financial
situation is probably suddenly really
damaged he's probably going to impact
his life in many different ways having
his channels deleted you could say about
me at least right now as 2080 net closes
that's not particularly true I get a
couple hundred dollars a month but it
doesn't impact my life that much one way
or another if you want to be paid on
YouTube you got to put on you got to put
on a suit and tie and you got to sit at
a news desk and you've got to be
incredibly careful about who you quote
and what you say whether or not that was
the preconceived plan that YouTube
created it's not just that the era of
fistfights on the street corner is over
the era of Real Talk on YouTube is over
in 2018 there will never be another
anisia there will never be another the
amazing atheist
there will never be another monkey Jones
if you do upload those kinds of videos
you will never be able to make money out
of them you will never be able to earn a
living you will never be able to gather
a large audience not on YouTube maybe
try some other website okay so the rules
have changed and the implications and
effect of that change in rules was very
subtle at first but now we see it in all
its devastating knock-on effects and use
a legal term some of you may or may not
know this is especially famous in
American law what censorship has is a
chilling effect on free speech it has a
chilling effect on political commentary
and criticism that's the legal term and
that's exactly
what this is